Colorectal cancer is the term used for
cancer that starts in the colon
(large intestine) or rectum.
In the United States,
colorectal cancer is the third most
common type of cancer
that is diagnosed in both men and women.
An abdominoperineal resection,
or APR, is a surgical procedure to remove the rectum.
The procedure is used to treat
certain rectal and anal cancers.
Your surgeon will remove your anus,
rectum and part of your sigmoid colon
along with associated blood vessels and lymph nodes.
The portion of your colon removed
contains the cancerous tissue.
Your anus is permanently closed with sutures.
A colostomy will then be performed
to bring the healthy end of your colon
to the surface of your abdomen.
This creates a new site on your abdomen called a stoma,
where stool leaves the body
and collects in an ostomy pouch.